I was just checking out these

Where's this one from?

Now, tell me about this one .

Nah.

It was taken by British soldiers in Benin but it's from Wakanda and it's made out of vibranium . Don't trip, I'mma take it off your hands for you.

How do you think your ancestors got these? You think they paid a fair price? Or did they take it like they took everything else .

You got all this security watching me ever since I walked in. But , you ain't checking for what you put in your body .

Hey! Hey somebody get some help ! Come here! Call a doctor, please! Hey please, somebody come help ! The security guards quickly rush to the museum director's aid.

Bro, why you 'aint just shoot him right here?

Whatever you try , the Wakandans 'll probably show up .

Nah, I'm just feeling it .

Oh I ain't worried about the money, bro. I know you're good for it . Klaue smiles.

On our way back, just drop us of in Wakanda.

Yea I do .

It's gonna be ok.

Each one is for a kill .

Just a 'lil gift .

Y'all sittin' up here comfortable. Must feel good . There's about 2 billion people all over the world that looks like us but their lives are a lot harder , Wakanda has the tools to liberate them all .

Vibranium . Your weapons.

Not your own? But didn't life start here, on this continent? So ain 't all people your people?

(laughing) That's not my name, Princess . Ask me, King?

(Xhosa) I am N'Jadaka, son of Prince N'Jobu. 79. A hush falls over the room . The tribal elders knew N'Jobu .

I found my daddy with Panther claws in his chest . You ain't the son of a King you're the son of a murderer!

Hey Auntie .

I'm exercising my blood right to challenge for the mantles of King and Black Panther . Utter silence as all eyes turn to T'Challa . T'Challa desperately wants to refuse but knows that isn't possible .

Weeks? I don't need weeks. The whole country ain't gotta be there I just need him ... and somebody to get me out of these chains.

I killed in America, Afghanistan, Iraq. I took life from my own brothers and sisters right here on the continent . And all this death, just so I can kill you . T'Challa looks to Zuri and nods.

This is for my father.

I'll take you both, Uncle James ...

Is this your King? The Black Panther , who's supposed to lead you into the future .

Nah. I'm your King .

Well maybe your home is the one that's lost . That's why they can't find us. N'Jobu stares at his son , heartbroken .

This is all of it?

Another King .. . yea go ahead and burn all that . 91.

When I tell you to do something , I mean that shit . Burn it all ! He lets her go as she gasps for air . Shell-shocked , the

You know, where I'm from, when black folks started revolutions , they never had the firepower or resources to fight their oppressors . Where was Wakanda? Hmm? Yea all that ends today. We got spies embedded in every nation on Earth. Already in place . 92.

I know how colonizers think. So we're gonna use their own strategy against them . We're gonna send vibranium weapons out to our War Dogs. They'll arm oppressed people all over the world, so they can finally rise up and kill those in power, and their children and anyone else who takes their side . It's time they know the truth about us. We're warriors. The world's gonna start over and this time we're on top .

The sun will never set on the Wakandan Empire. Okoye looks to W'Kabi.

You heard your orders. Let's get to it. W'Kabi salutes while Okoye looks on .

Have the spies been alerted?

Look at this. A handheld sonic cannon powerful enough to stop a tank. Untraceable by metal detectors, and we got thousands of 'em. The world's gonna find out

All that challenge shit is over with. I'm the King now. (turns to Kingsguard) Get those planes in the air ! Carry out the mission !

W'Kabi, kill this clown .

Your reign is over. You sat up here safe and protected.

The world took away everything away from me ! Everything I ever loved ! But I'm gonna make sure we're even.

I'm gonna track down anyone who would even think about being loyal to you, and I'm gonna put they ass in the dirt , right next to Zuri. 111. Hatred flashes over T'Challa's eyes as he reengages his mask

Hell of a move .

My pops said Wakanda was the most beautiful thing he'd ever seen. He promised he was going to show it to me some day . Can you believe that? Kid from Oakland running around believing in fairy tales. 117.

It's beautiful . T'Challa thinks for a long beat.

Why? So you can just lock me up? Nah. Just bury me in the ocean, with my ancestors that jumped from the ships ... 'cause they knew death was better than bondage.

