an origin written by Todd Phillips & Scott Silver 13 April 2018 This story takes place in its own universe. It has no connection to any of the DC films that have come before it. We see it as a classic Warner Bros. movie. Gritty, intimate

--is it just me, or is it getting crazier out there? Despite the laughter, there's real pain in his eyes. Something broken in him. Looks like he hasn't slept in days.

Yeah, I mean, it's different each day, so I really like that. I don't think I could ever work in an office. Behind a desk. (beat) No offense. She smiles. Writes something down. Looks at the clock, she's running late for her next appointment.

Everyday.

(dodging the subject) I'm sorry. Did I bring what?

Yes ma'am. Beat.

I've been using it as a journal, but also a joke diary. Funny thoughts or, or observations-- Did I tell you I'm pursuing a career in stand-up comedy? She's half-listening as she flips through his journal.

Right.

I didn't realize you wanted to read it. The social worker gives him a look, then reads something in the pages that gives her pause.

Yeah. I mean, that's just--

No. I just,-- some of it's personal. You know?

She has good days. But mostly bad. It's been a big help having me there. She really needs me.

(nods) Yeah, it's good I'm there. When I was in the hospital, after my last episode-- she was having trouble getting over there to visit. She looks back up at the clock, she needs to get to her next appointment.

Yeah, I was wondering if you could ask the doctor to increase the dosage on my medications? Nothing seems to make a difference.

(lying) Some. She glances at his file again.

I just don't wanna feel so bad anymore.

I wasn't bothering her, I was--

It's day to day. I’m doing everything I can to get her back on her feet. (re: pharmacy bag) Picked up her medicine. Gonna make her some dinner.9.

(calls out after her) Hey Sophie-- She turns around.

I’ll tell my mom you said hello. She smiles as in "yeah, that’s what I said."

Yes, Ma. Nothing. No letter.

Yes I'm sure. And my head's right here. I’m gonna make you some dinner, okay?

He's a busy man.

Ma, eat. You need to eat.

Maybe you shouldn't watch so much television.

(playful) Everybody who? Who do you talk to?

Stop it. He's not even gonna run. Why would Thomas Wayne want to be mayor? He can do more good as a businessman.

He will. Now eat some dinner. He feeds her a bite of the food.

How you feeling today?

(teasing) Maybe it's the moon. Maybe you're a werewolf?

What? Why?

Who tips their mailman?

Okay. I can try his office. Tomorrow.13.

Hello. I have a personal letter for Mr. Thomas Wayne.

It's kind of important. I need to make sure he gets it himself.

Oh. Right-- well, my mom used to work for the Wayne family-- for 12 years. She was their housekeeper.

Mr. Wayne knows her. Can you maybe at least call back to him? Tell him that I'm here.

Okay. Well, can I have your name? So I know who I left it with.15.

Wait . He's right there. (goes up to the glass, shouts) Mr. Wayne! Mr. Wayne. He starts banging on the glass... but the group keeps moving. Not noticing him.

It was just a bunch of kids. I should have left it alone. Randall opens his locker--

(nods) My mother says that the people nowadays lack empathy.

It means like "feeling for other people."

Kind of. But different.

What for?

Hey Hoyt. Gary said you wanted to see me?

Not quite. Haven't even performed yet. Just been working my material. This business is all about fine-tuning. Now Hoyt looks up. Takes a drag from his cigarette.18.

No. I got jumped. I told you about that.

(voice tightens) I don't have his sign. *

They wouldn't let me see him. (lying) But they promised me it would get to him.

Look up. She tilts her head back and he rinses her hair with the water from the container...

Why are these letters so important to you, Ma? What do you think he's gonna do?

Help us how?21.

You worked for him over 30 years ago. What makes you think he would help you? She looks at him with conviction.

I don't want you worrying about money. Everyone's been telling me they think my stand-up is ready for the big clubs. It's just a matter of time before I get a break. She steps into the towel. He's helping dry her off.

What do you mean?

What?!

I know. The Americans are really giving it to the Japs. He walks over to her in the darkness. Kisses her on the forehead.

(softly) I'm sorry. I'll turn it down.

Why didn't Randall tell me the gun was loaded? He's my friend. With my luck, I could have killed someone. (beat) I could have killed myself.

(still to himself) I should have killed myself.

(louder to himself) I should kill myself. Beat.

Hello. I'd like to open an account. She looks up.

Oh, hi. That's weird. (pausing to see if he's gonna laugh; he's good) I didn't know you worked at a bank.

Very glamorous. Look at this place. She laughs. He stands there awkwardly for a moment looking around to see what she's laughing about. Realizes she thought he was making a joke.Beat.

I'm a comedian. I do stand-up comedy.

Yeah. You know, I'm always making funny observations. Always on the look out for my next bit-- so it makes sense.

I said hi to my mom.

Last week. You said to say hi to my mom. I did. Made her day.

(shouts out, to no one in particular)

(singing) --if you're happy and you know it and you really want to show it, if you're happy and you know it clap your hands.28.

If you're happy and you know it, stomp your feet.

If you're happy and you know it, stomp your feet. (stomp, stomp) If you're happy and you know it and you really want to show it, if you're happy and you know it stomp your feet.

(into phone) Hoyt, let me explain.

(into phone)

(into phone) Randall told you that?

(into phone) Hoyt--

(into phone) Say what?

(into phone; low) --I'm a fuck up and I'm fired.

(into phone; louder) I'm a fuck up and I'm fired.

(shakes his head, stifling the laughter) Please. Don't.

Nothing. I have a condition--

No. It's just my stuff. I don't have anything. The guy rips the bag from his hand--

Hi. Do you like to laugh? Water dripping, white grease paint running off his face-- *

Remember how I told you that I'm a stand-up comedian? (again) Hi. How are you? Beat.

Hi. Do you like to laugh? *

Were you crying? Why are you crying? Beat.

I'm sorry. I, I didn't--

What happened?

What for?

(finally) Okay. Well, all the info is right there on the flyer. He starts to walk away, then turns back to her--

You know they say laughter is the best medicine. Sophie wipes her eyes and manages a smile.

Well I didn't think you were going to read it.

I lied. Everything bothers me .

It's personal. It's my private thoughts. Plus it contains original comedy material that I don't feel comfortable handing over to you. She looks at him and shakes her head. Not in the mood to deal with this.

So where will we be meeting?39.

Okay.

How am I gonna get my medication? Beat.

Why are they talking to him?

(trying to stop himself from laughing) -- good evening, hello. (deep breath; trying to stop laughing) Good to be here. (keeps cracking up) I, I hated school as a kid. But my mother would always say,-- (bad imitation of his mom, still laughing) "You should enjoy it. One day you'll have to work for a living." (laughs) "No I won't, Ma. I'm gonna be a comedian!"

So, did you laugh? Really couldn't see much from up there. Sophie pauses, doesn't know what to say. She lights up a cigarette.

All I heard was my heart pounding.

What friends?

(he forgot; recovers)

Yeah,-- I don't know how something like that happens.

You think?

(calls out to her) Hey. You want to get some coffee? Sophie turns around and smiles. She looks great, even in front of the mounds of garbage bags that line the sidewalk.

I don't know.

Not all of them are awful. Take someone like Thomas Wayne for example. He's a hero.

Sophie, he's the only one who can save this city.

What happened?

With your job. At the bank?

(catching his breath) I'm sorry. I have this thing--

I don't know. I read you can get it from a brain injury or, or a lesion in there. My mom said I was born this way. Born laughing. 48.

I took a razor and cut this smile onto my face. (she's taken aback as he points to the scars) Sort of like "You want happy? Here, how's this for happy?" He looks down, still smiling. She just watches him for a beat.

I've been thinking about this night my whole life. They just sit there for a beat. Quiet.

(quietly) "That's life." He hears Don Ellis and his Jazz Orchestra playing the show's closing song-- the instrumental version of Frank Sinatra's "That's Life".

What is this? How come you never told me?

How could you not tell me, Ma?

(raising his voice; excited)

(shouts after her) I'm not yelling ! I'm just, excited. How can any of this be real!? How can Thomas Wayne be my father?

(lowers his voice; trying to sound calm) Okay. How's this, Mom? Better? Will you please talk to me?

Please.

(eyes still closed, head leaning against the door) What would they say, Ma?

It was a prop gun. And I didn't pull it out, it fell out.

Why don't you ask Randall about it? It was his idea.

What?

Randall, I didn't shoot anybody. That wasn't me. And I don't have time for this, I got somebody real important I gotta go see.

(turning back around) What?

What are you talking about?

Randall. Your nose.

(blurts out) Thomas Wayne is my father--

You did this to her?

They told me she had a stroke. Beat.

(laughter choking up in his throat) No I,-- I have a, a-- Tears rolling down his face, he takes out one of his cards and hands it to Det. Burke. Burke glances over the card, a skeptical look on his face. 62.

I don't know anything about that.

They said I wasn’t funny. The detectives share another look.63.

Now, if you don’t mind, I have to go back and look after my mother.

Clown thing?

What do you think?

Excuse me, I was wondering how I could check my mother out of here? One of the nurses at the desk looks up at him, seems slightly annoyed.

Penny Fleck. I'd like to take her home.64.

She's not gonna wanna stay that long. She doesn't like hospitals. Or doctors.

I don't like hospitals either. Beat. The resident just nods okay. Looks down at his clipboard--

Okay. Thanks. He turns to go, but the resident continues--

Symptoms?

Can you tell me what those symptoms are again?

(trying to stop himself from laughing) -- good evening, hello. (deep breath; trying to stop laughing) Good to be here. (keeps cracking up) I, I hated school as a kid. But my mother would always say,-- (bad imitation of his mom, still laughing) "You should enjoy it. One day you'll have to work for a living." (laughs) "No I won't, Ma. I'm gonna be a comedian!" Back to Murray Franklin shaking his head, trying not to laugh.

It's funny, when I was a little boy and told people I wanted to be a comedian, everyone laughed at me. (opens his arms like a big shot) Well no one is laughing now. Dead silence. Nobody  is laughing. Not even him.

Excuse me?

No, sorry. Wasn't me.

I don't know what you're talking about.

If I were you, I'd walk away from this table before I strangle all three of you with that fucking stethoscope hanging from your neck. Beat.

What? Yeah. No I, I-- 71.

Dad. It's me. Beat. But Thomas Wayne doesn't hear him, he was flushing the urinal. He walks toward the sink.

My name is Arthur. I'm Penny's son. (beat) I know you didn't know about me, and I don't want anything from you. Well... maybe a hug.

Yes. But they wouldn't let me in, wouldn't let me see you. So I came here. I have so many questions. Thomas Wayne just laughs to himself and turns on the gold faucets at one of the sinks.

How do you know?

No. What? I wasn't adopted. Thomas starts drying his hands.

No. No, I don't believe that.

(tries shaking his head no; still laughing and choking) No, no I have a con--

Sophie?

Can I ask you a question? How does someone wind up in here? Have all these people committed crimes?

(nods; looks down) Yeah, I know how that is. Sometimes I don't know what to do, y'know, I don't think I can take any more of this. The clerk is half listening as he scans the paper work.

Last time I ended up taking it out on some,-- people. Bad shit. I thought it would bother me but, it really hasn't. For the first time, the clerk looks at him--

It's just so hard to try and be happy all the time, y'know, when everything's going to shit all around you.

(backtracking) Yeah. They cut those. Anyway, I was just talking to talk. The clerk just nods. Finally finds what he was looking for.

(saying it out loud for himself to hear) So she was a patient here.

What?

I can handle bad. I've been on a pretty bad run myself. The clerk puts the file down on his desk--

No, wait,-- Sophie, we can get through this, that's why I'm here.

I don't know. I mean I've never been with a woman "like that," but, this feels like a beginning to me.

You what? What? What kind of woman are you? Who does that? Some of the other mothers turn toward them--

(shouts) Why not? GiGi runs up to Sophie's side to see what's going on, to see if her mother's okay.

No. Don't listen to her GiGi, you need to hear this. Your mother's a bad person. She's a whore, she's seeing two men at once. You can't trust her,-- She'll break your fucking heart.

How come nothing ever comes easy for me? And Sophie slaps him hard across the face-- Then turns and walks away.

Ma, remember how you used to tell me that God gave me this laugh for a reason. That I had a purpose. To bring laughter and joy into this fucked up world,-- She looks at him confused. *

HA! It wasn't God, it was you or, * or one of your boyfriends,-- how * could you let that happen? What kind of woman are you? What kind of mother are you? She looks away.

What's my real name? Her whole body is shaking, overwhelmed with emotion.

C'mon, Ma, I know I was adopted. What's my name? Who am I really? She looks back him, struggles to speak--

(interrupting, snaps at her)

But you know what's funny? You know what really makes me laugh? Leans down closer, face-to-face with her--

I used to think my life was nothing but a tragedy, but now, now I realize it's all just a fucking * comedy.

(nods; frustrated) Yeah, I don't know if I should cross or uncross 'em. Both feel completely unnatural.

Thanks for having me on, Murray. I * can't tell you how much this means * to me, it's been a life long dream. * I have a joke for you-- *

You're right. You're right, uncrossed is better.

(wiping his eyes; restrained anger) You shouldn't be here. It's not right.

It's always been just me and her.

You saw that?

Yeah, well I guess you didn't get the joke.

(interrupting) Which hospital?

I just buried my mother.

(looks down, reading the card) Right. Thanks for coming.

That was a joke.

Is that today? Randall looks at him and laughs--

My mom died.

(catching his breath) I'm gonna be on TV tonight. Can you believe it? Gary doesn't answer. Doesn't move--

It's okay, Gary. You can go.

Go on. Go. You're free. *

(shakes Murray's hand; effusive) Murray, I can't believe this is real, that I'm really here. 99.

Are you kidding? Thank you for the opportunity. I've been watching you forever. My mother never missed a show. Murray nods not listening, he's heard this before.

No. I hadn't heard. Gene and Murray share a look.

Thank you Murray.

Honestly, I don't even know what my real name is.

(just nods, still laughing) Yeah. Isn't it great?

(between laughs) That's right. I'm not political, Murray. I'm, I'm, I'm just trying to make people laugh.

(reading) Okay. Here's one. Knock knock.

(nods, reads it again) I want to get it right. Knock knock. Murray makes a face like, "Okay, I’ll go along with this."

(looks up from his notebook) It's the police, ma'am. Your son has been hit by a drunk driver. He's dead. Beat.106.

That's right, Murray. But she's dead now. The audience laughs.

Yeah. She is.

I don't know who my father is, Murray. Turns out I was adopted and sexually assaulted by my mother's boyfriend.

(just keeps going, on a roll) Sorry. It's been a rough few months, Murray. I mean, after my mother died, the police came to question me at her funeral. Who does that?

Very funny, Murray. No, they came because I killed those three Wall Street guys. Beat.108. Studio audience can't tell if he's joking or not. Murray can't either.

There is no punchline. It's not a joke.

(shrugs) I got nothing left to lose, Murray. Nothing can hurt me anymore. This is my fate, it was always my fate. My life is nothing but a comedy.

Yeah. But comedy is subjective, isn't that what they say? Besides, the way I see it, what happened was a good thing. All of you, Gotham, the system that knows so much,  you decide, you  decide what's right and wrong. What's real or what's made up. The same way you decide what's funny or not. Sophie edges forward on the couch, can almost see a hint of agreement on her face.

C'mon, Murray, do I look like the  kind of clown who could start a movement? I killed those guys * because they were awful. * Everybody's  awful these days. It's enough to make anyone crazy. *110.

No. They couldn't carry a tune to * save their lives. * Some audible groans from the audience. *

Yeah. I do. Everything comes so easy for him.

You're awful, Murray. There is no more laughter. The audience is watching this exchange with full attention.

Playing my video, inviting me on * the show,-- You just wanted to make * fun of me. Well it's easy to laugh * at Frankenstein on a crowded beach, * isn't it? You're just like the rest * of them, Murray. Everything comes too easy for you.

(pulls Randall's gun) * I'll tell you what you get. You get * what you fucking deserve,-- *

(looks straight into camera; screams Murray's signature sign off)

