So he’s gone? (beat) That’s a shame.  I would’ve liked to have seen that. A tense moment as they stare each other down.

Really, you don’t look like him.

You sound like him. Loki shifts nervously.  Thor’s grip tightens on Mjolnir.

Kneel.

Kneel...before your Queen.

Darling, you have no idea what’s possible.

You look like a smart boy with good survival instincts.  How would you like a job?

It’s come to my attention that you don’t know who I am.

Whoever I am?  Did you listen to a word I said?

I thought you’d be happy to see me.

Fine.

Oh, I’ve missed this.  Still, it’s a shame.  Good soldiers dying for nothing...all because they couldn’t see the future.  Sad. (then she sees:) Oh!  Look, still alive. Reveal Hogun, severely injured but staggering to his feet, resilient.

Change of heart? Hogun draws a dagger as a last ditch attack.

Let’s go see my palace.

Does no one remember me? (awaiting an answer) Has no one been taught our history? Look at these lies.  Goblets and garden parties?  Peace treaties?

Odin... proud to have it... ashamed of how he got it.

We were unstoppable. I was his weapon in the conquest that built Asgard’s empire. One by one, the realms became ours.

But then, simply because my ambition outgrew his...he banished me, caged me, locked me away like an animal.  Before that, Asgard’s warriors were honored, their bodies buried as heroes beneath this very place.

Fake.

Most of the stuff in here is fake. Next: The Casket of Ancient Winter.

Or weak. Next: Surtur’s skull.

Smaller than I thought it would be.

That’s not bad? (notices:) But this... The Eternal Flame.

Want to see what true power looks like?

Fenris.  My darling, what have they done to you? She lifts her flaming hand above her head. She slams her hand into the ground.

With the Eternal Flame, you are reborn!

I’ve missed you.  I’ve missed you all.

What is that noise?

Tell me about yourself, Skurge.

(interrupts) I’ll just stop you there.  What I meant was what is your ambition?

Recognition. (then:) When I was young every great King had an executioner.  Not just to execute people, but also to execute their vision.  But mainly to execute people.  Still a great honor. (beat) I was Odin’s executioner.

Skurge, where’s the sword? Reveal that the Bi-Frost sword is missing.

That sword is the key to opening the Bi-Frost.

These people you mentioned, the ones who aren’t falling into line.  Round them up.

You.

Well?  Executioner?

You’re still alive.

It seems our father’s solution to every problem was to cover it up.

You see, you never knew him, not at his best. (nostalgic sigh) Odin and I drowned entire civilizations in blood and tears. Where do you think all this gold came from? And then one day he decided to become a benevolent king.

Okay, get up.  You’re in my seat.

But must always be ready for it.

To be honest, I expected more.

Here’s the difference between us. I’m Odin’s firstborn, the rightful heir, the savior of Asgard. (beat) And you’re nothing.

So simple.  Even a blind man could see it.

Now you remind me of Dad.

You see?  No one’s going anywhere. (then:) I’ll get that sword even if I have to kill every single one of them to do it. Thor looks down.  Distraught.  Heartsick.

That little shit.

A valiant effort, but you never stood a chance. Thor looks up from his friends protecting his people as they frenziedly board to Ark to- -the twilight stars coming out over Asgard.  There’s a glimmering of stardust in the sky.

You see?  I’m not a queen, or a monster.

I’m the Goddess of Death.

What were you the God of again?

Tell me brother, what were you the God of again...?

Whatever game you’re playing, it won’t work.  You can’t defeat me.

No...NO!

