Preferably not chained to the wall?

Should be simple enough. Just make a hole, grab the money.

Where are you money? C’mere--

Sorry, sir, I’ll just be a moment--

Sir, please just let me rob you!

Well see I'm a scientist -- or I was -- I am. You heard of Alchemax? Well, I used to work there... I was

Sorry! First of all I'm not even

I can’t really get a job anywhere anymore being like this so I’ve turned to a life of crime --

Spider-Man. Wow. This is real!

I am... (dramatic pause)

We meet again, Spider-Man.

Oh that’s funny to you?

Unfortunately for both of us, this is skin.

I’m from your past. You see, one year ago...

You’re looking at your texts? You understand this is the fight of our lives right?

No! Go ahead. Take the call. You turn off your phone in a movie theater, but you don’t turn it off when you’re fighting me?

Oh my nose! Ah that really hurt!

Sike.

I think this is going great. We’re finding our rhythm! Another portal dumps them right into

I’ve been waiting for this moment for a really long time, so -- They try to fight but just slip and slide pathetically. The

Hey where did this goose come from? Two kids wear different Spider-Man masks. The kid with a Miles mask takes it off.

Unbelievable! Come back to the your nemesis! (then) Your costume’s too tight in the back by the way.

This is not what it looks like. He’s assaulting me.

He left in the middle of a fight!

It was inconsiderate and super rude. And a little cocky.

What did you call me? You realize I’m right here.

(chuckles) Of course we’d end up back here... Miles and Jeff, in the meantime, try to catch their breath from that wild ride --

The crucible of our connection!

Is it all coming back to you?

The creation event!

Destiny brought us here! You see it now, don’t you?

I am your nemesis!

You really don’t remember what you did to me... what I did for you?

I worked at Alchemax. I ran a test on this collider that brought a spider here from another dimension.

... it escaped and bit you. My spider made you Spider-Man.

You ran through the cafeteria.

You hit me with a bagel!

You make your flippy, little sassy jokes and everyone loves them. But no one knows what it feels like to be on the other side.

I created you. You created me.

I was in this collider room when you blew it up!

Because of you, I lost my job, my life, my face! My family won’t even look at me!

I made you into a hero! You made me

Look at me! I’ll make you respect m-

I am your nemes--!!

I think I kicked myself... into myself? These holes are different than the ones we’ve seen. As if an entire galaxy were roiling within each one.

Well this is new. Hellooooo. Hello! Echo, echoooooo -- no echo. He floats toward a hole. Drawn to it.

Hypothesis: I’m going to put my head in that hole. He does...49.

Hello!

Ow! Please! Ah! Ow! Stop it!

Excuse me! Hi. Sorry to bug you, I know you’re busy.

I know it’s weird I just came out of nowhere, but I think I’m becoming a transdimensional superbeing.

So? I’m literally splitting the fabric of space and time. For you it’s just a Tuesday night. You’re

Can I have some gum?

The power of the multiverse in the palm of my hand... my holes aren’t a curse, they’re the answer!

No, you’re gonna love this! Look --

I just need a little bit more dimensional juice -- never did come up with a good name for that -- branding was never my strong suit.

... if I connect the city power line to my micro-collider prototype... it could generate a little more concentrated dark energy....

I just need enough to get me somewhere with a full-sized collider...

This is incredible. You never know what you’re capable of until you just go for it, you know?

Pardon me, locals! Wow, four on there. That’s very dangerous.

That looks good. (tries a bite) Which way to Alchemax?

It’s a place with a big collide-OOF!-

That’s the best you could do?

You weren’t expecting that were you?

Neither was I! I’m in the zone!83.

Ah. Hello, Spider-Man.

Not you.

Wow, hi, how are you?

Can you tell I leveled up my game? I’m on a journey of self- improvement!

No, I didn’t mean it like that --

Oh! I love chai tea!

Fine. You made me feel empty, like I had a hole inside of me. But now I found out what to fill that hole up with... more holes!

It will!

I’m about to be so much more than a villain of the week...

Not yet I’m not.

Look at that, another one! I love how many different variations of you guys there are.

Y’all make a heck of a team.

This is gonna be good for us, Spider-Man. You and me, we’re finally gonna live up to our potential. You’ll finally have a villain worth fighting, and I won’t be just a joke to you!

They won’t after this.

Our future.

I’m gonna take everything from you like you took everything from me.

See you back home, Spider-Man.

I’m gonna take everything from you like you took everything from me.

I’ll make you pay for everything you took away from me.

