I mean you both no harm. This place is amazing. The air is pristine. Not a trace of pollution. (looks back at the water) And the water... (beat)

I have many names.

We have a problem. The American military detected Vibranium embedded beneath my nation’s domain. I was able to stop them from mining it, but I need Wakanda’s help to prevent it from happening again.

The oceans.Tan Rev. (02/23/22) 26.

They used a machine that we confiscated. Did you help them build it?

We have information that the machine was designed by an American scientist. But we could not find any record on their identity. I would prefer to deal with the scientist as opposed to waging war on the entire nation. (beat) I imagine Wakanda has more diverse methods of gathering intelligence, and could find the identity of the scientist, and bring them to me.

Your former King exposed the power of vibranium to the world. In response other nations have begun scouring the planet for it. We do not wish to be exposed, but your choices have compromised us. It is only fair that you help resolve our dilemma.

I have more soldiers than this land has blades of grass. But my only desire is that my people remain hidden from the world. I hope you can understand my urgency, because I would hate to come back under different circumstances. (beat) There is a beautiful island off the coast of Madagascar: Nosy Nato. Do you know it?

When you have the scientist, blow into this and place it in the ocean on the north beach. I’ll be there shortly afterwards.

And please for your sake, don’t mention anything about me to anyone outside of Wakanda.

Princess.

What can I do for you, Queen? Ramonda stares at the ocean.

I could not be sure you would deliver her to me. And the protection of my people is my only concern.

The Princess is alive and well.

She requested to be taken to Talocan. She will remain there for the time being.

Nothing.

If you tell the Americans about us, if you try to find us or if I discover a single Wakandan ship in the ocean, I will kill the Princess, and then I will come to Wakanda and kill you. Do you understand? You have two days, Queen.

You are safe here, Princess. I will not allow any harm to befall you while you are in my custody.

Funny that you should gravitate towards that. That was my mother’s.

She was.  But then she became something else.

How, is never as important, as why.

My father was a Purepecha traveler, but he found love and paradise in piece of the Americas that you would call Tulum today. Then it was Zama. Some are afflicted with smallpox, and it is clear that they are hiding out and waiting.

My mother and her village were driven from their maize farms by Spanish conquistadors who brought smallpox, hateful language, and dogma from another world. The woman places the jade into the mouth of her deceased partner before he is buried.

Facing starvation, war and disease my people turned to Chaac. Our god of rain and abundance. Tan Rev. (02/23/22) 69. Tan Rev. (02/23/22) 70.

My mother was pregnant with me at the time. She did not want to ingest the plant, for fear of what it may do to me. But the Shaman was convincing.

The plant took away their ability to breathe air, but it enabled them to draw oxygen from the sea.

My mother gave birth to me here, and I became the first born son of Talocan. I was different from other Talocanil. A mutant. I looked different. I was small in size. A runt. But I could breathe the air our ancestors breathed.

I could swim in the sky and aged slower.

As she grew older, my mother mourned the life on land that she once knew and died with a broken heart.

My mother made me promise to bury her in the soil of her homeland. But nothing could prepare me for what I would find.

A Spanish man of faith cursed me as he died by my hand,

I was made King, recognized as Kukulkan, and Talocan grew under my rule.

So that you understand why I must kill the scientist. Colonizers came to our land in search of chocolate and rubber and devastated my people. Now they are coming for our metal. We are more vulnerable than you. We have no sonic shields or cloaking devices. And the seas are being explored to a greater degree everyday. (beat) It is my duty as K’uk’ulkan to protect what we have preserved here at any cost. Shuri nods earnestly.

I cannot risk that, Princess.

For a short while, this can be both your homes. Shuri looks around.

(smiles) No. Talocan.

Well, you can’t go down there in that. Hypothermia would grip you almost instantaneously. Your blood would become toxic. The pressure of the ocean would break every bone in your body, and even my considerable strength couldn’t save you.

(smiles) Or, you could wear a suit.

Can you hear me princess?

Now you see... We are you and you are us.

They are teaching each other, playing and working all at once.

Maybe another time. It is a sacred place. This way.

I have considered your offer,

Let us watch the sastun rise. She nods.

Would you still like to see the garden? Green Rev. (07/11/21) 86. Green Rev. (07/11/21) 87-88.

Do you have news for me, Queen?

How can I be sure you are telling the truth?

That is big a request from someone with no leverage. The scientist is only alive because of your daughter’s kindness. She will be executed once the Princess is returned.

I will verify your claim.

It will take as long as it takes. I know where to find you, Queen.

Princess! Scientist! We brought fresh crops from today’s yield. Green Rev. (07/11/21) 92. Tan Rev. (02/23/22) 93.

Relax child.

We will . I promised my mother that I would never allow a single Talocanil to be killed again.

(in Maya) Talocan’s security has been violated. I was blinded by hope of partnership. And I have compromised all of us.

Our ancestors were forced to leave the Guatemalan highlands. They settled on the shores of Zama until we were forced to move into the ocean. Talocan will not move again. (beat) We will show Wakanda what it is like to have to move. When we are done with them, they will never think of approaching Talocan. (beat)

(impossibly loud, in Maya)

* I came with only a few warriors. * May your next ruler be wiser and * not betray Talocan again. *

Where?

It does not matter. Gather our warriors. Whomever it is, they will regret setting foot in our domain.

Get out of the water! Racked with pain, they swim for the surface.

Destroy the weapon making that noise!

And this is you, taking your vengeance. The Queen violated our agreement. She sent an assassin to rescue you and murdered a child.  Had she mistreated you? (beat) You were safe in my care.

The scientist? She chose death the moment she created that machine. It was a matter of time.

(in Maya)

(sotto voce) Ch'a toh aj tepal. (Imperious rex)Cherry Rev. (09/30/21) 149. Green Rev. (07/11/21) 150.

...the mountains here remind me of Mayan temples.

What does Wakanda want in return.

(in Maya) I yield. Shuri nods, then reaches for her Kimoyo Bead.

Talocanil. Stand down! (beat) Let us return home. Our fight here is done.

The Black Panther had every reason to kill me. I was weak, dehydrated. Her blade was to my neck. Why do you think she didn’t go through with it?

The Black Panther is the most powerful person in the most powerful nation on the surface. And she has empathy for the people of Talocan now. We have their protection. We lost many lives, but  with this alliance, Talocan is stronger than ever.

