I believe that what doesn't kill you...

...simply makes you stranger.

I thought I told bad jokes.

How about a magic trick?

I'll make this pencil disappear.

And by the way, the suit wasn't cheap.  You should know.  You bought it.

A year ago these cops and lawyers wouldn't dare cross any of you.  What happened?  Did your balls drop off? See, a guy like me-

A guy like me... I know why you're holding your little group therapy session in broad daylight.  I know why you're afraid to go out at night. Batman.  He's shown Gothamyour true colors.  And Dent's just the beginning. (indicates Lau) And as for his so-called plan- Batman has no jurisdiction .  He'll find him and make him squeal. (smilesat Lau) I can tell the squealers every time.

It's simple.  Kill the Batman. Jeers.  Laughter.

Like my mother used to tell me- if you're good at something, never do it for free.

Half.

You don't deal with this now, soon Gambol won't even be able to get a nickel for his grandma-

Let's not blow this out of all proportion.

Let me know when you change your minds.

How about alive?

Wannaknow how I got these scars?  My father was a drinker and a fiend. He'd beat mommy right in front of me. One night he goes off crazier than usual, mommy gets the kitchen knife to defend herself.  He doesn't like that.  Not.  One.  Bit.

So, me watching, he takes the knife to her, laughing while he does it. Turns to me and says 'why so serious?'  Comes at me with the knife- 'why so serious?'  Sticks the blade in my mouth- 'Let's put a smile on that face' and...

Why so serious?

Now, our organization is small, but we've got a lot of potential for aggressive expansion... so which of you fine gentlemen would like to join our team?

Only one slot open right now- so we're going to have try-outs.

Make it fast. The men stare at each other.  Then at the jagged pool cue.

This is how crazy Batman's made Gotham.You want order in Gotham? Batman has to go.  So... (leans in) Batman must take off his mask, and turn himself in.  45. Every day he doesn't... people will die.  Starting tonight.  I'm a man of my word.

Good evening.  We're the entertainment.

I only have one question: where is Harvey Dent? (silence) I'll settle for his loved ones...

You know, you remind me of my father.

Hello, beautiful.  You must be Harvey's squeeze. (runshis knife across her cheek) And you are beautiful.  You look nervous- it's the scars isn't it? Wannaknow how I got them?  I had a wife,  beautiful like you.  Who tells me I worry too much.  Who says I need to smile more.  Who gambles.  And gets in deep with the sharks.  One day they carve her face, and we've got no money for surgeries.  She can't take it. (pressesknife into her cheek) I just want to see her smile again. I just want her to know I don't care about the scars.  So I put a razor in my mouth and do this to myself... And you know what? (startslaughing) She can't stand the sight of me... (or crying) She leaves!  See, now I see the funny side.  Now I'm always smiling.53.

A little fight in you.  I like that.

Sure.  Just take off your mask and show us all who you are...

(laughs) Very poor choice of words...

I'm a man of my word.

Anyone could be driving that thing- stay on Dent.

Do me up-

Whoever he was... he ain't now.

Tee 'em up.

Guess it was him.

Hit me.  Come on.  Hit me.

Just give me a second.

Evening, Commissioner.

Of course not.

(laughs) Me?  I was right here.  Who did you leave him with?  Your people? Assuming, of course, that they are your people not Maroni's... (off look) Does it depress you, Lieutenant, to know how alone you are?

Does it make you feel responsible for Harvey Dent's current predicament?

What time is it?

Depending on the time, he might be in one spot. (smiles) Or several.

The good cop, bad cop routine? Gordon pauses, hand on the doorknob.

Never start with the head... victim gets fuzzy.  Can't feel the next-

(calm) See?

I wanted to see what you'd do.  And

Those mob fools want you gone so they can get back to the way things were. But I know the truth- there's no going back.  You've changed things. Forever.

Kill you?  I don't want to kill you. What would I do without you?  Go back to ripping off Mob dealers?  No you... (points) You.  Complete.  Me.

Don't talk like one of them- you're not, even if you'd like to be.  To them you're a freak like me... they just need you right now. He regards Batman with something approaching pity.

But as soon as they don't, they'll cast you out like a leper.

Their morals, their code... it's a bad joke.  Dropped at the first sign of trouble.  They're only as good as the world allows them to be.  You'll see- I'll show you... when the chips are down, these civilized people... they'll eat each other. (grins) See, I'm not a monster... I'm just ahead of the curve.

You have these rules.  And you think they'll save you.

Then that's the one you'll have to break.  To know the truth.

(smiles) The only sensible way to live in this world is without rules.  Tonight you're going to break your one rule...

There are just minutes left- so, you'll have to play my little game if you want to save... (with relish) ...one of them.

For a while I thought you really were Dent, the way you threw yourself after her-

Look at you go... does Harvey know about you and his-?

Killing is making a choice...

...you choose one life over the other.  Your friend, the district attorney.  Or his blushing bride-to- be.

You have nothing.  Nothing to threaten me with.  Nothing to do with all your strength... (spits a tooth) But don't worry, I'm going to tell you where they are.  Both of them, and that's the point- you'll have to choose.

He's at 250 52nd Boulevard.  And she's on avenue X at Cicero.88.

I want my phone call.89.

How many of your friends have I killed?

You know why I use a knife, Detective?  Guns are too quick.  You don't get to savor all the little emotions.  See, in their last moments, people show you who they really are... Stephens tries hard to ignore him.  It isn't working.

So, in a way, I knew your friends better than you ever did. (smiles) Would you like to know which of them were really cowards?91.

I want my phone call.92. The Detectives look at each other.  One of them pulls out his

Hello there. In his cell.  Terrified.  Lau.

I told you- I'm a man of my word. (looksaround) Where's the Italian? The Chechenshrugs.  Pulls out a cigar.  Lights it.

I'm a man of simple tastes.  I like gunpowder.  Dynamite...

...gasoline...

And you know what they have in common?  They're cheap.

I am.

I'm only burning my half.100. The Chechenwatches the money catch fire.

All you care about is money.  This city deserves a better class of criminal, and I'm going to give it to them.  This is my town now.  Tell your men they work for me.

Cut him up and offer him to his little Princes.  Let's show him just how loyal a hungry dog is.

It's not about money.  It's about sending a message...

Everything.  Burns.

I had a vision.  Of a world without Batman.  The mob ground out a little profit and the police tried to shut them down, one block at a time... and it was so... boring.  I've had a change of heart.  I don't want Mr.Reese spoiling everything, but why should I have all the fun?  Let's give someone else a chance... Reese looks around, twitching.  Sweating.102.

If Coleman Reese isn't dead in sixty minutes, then I blow up a hospital. Of course, you could always kill yourself, Mr.Reese. But that would be the noble thing to do.  And you're a lawyer. The line rings off.  Engel is speechless.

I don't want there to be any hard feelings between us, Harvey.

When you and Rachel were being abducted I was sitting in Gordon's cage.  I didn't rig those charges-

Do I really look like a guy with a plan, Harvey?  I don't have a plan...The mob has plans, the cops have plans.  You know what I am, Harvey?106.

I'm a dog chasing cars... I wouldn't know what to do with one if I caught it.  I just do things.  I'm just the wrench in the gears.  I hate plans. Yours, theirs, everyone's.  Maroni has plans.  Gordon has plans. Schemers trying to control their worlds.  I'm not a schemer, I show the schemers how pathetic their attempts to control things really are.  So when I say that you and your girlfriend was nothing personal, you know I'm telling the truth...

It's the schemers who put you where you are.  You were a schemer.  You had plans.  Look where it got you.  I just did what I do best- I took your plan, and I turned it on itself. Look what I've done to this city with a few drums of gas and a couple of bullets.  Nobody panics when the expected people get killed.  Nobody panics when things go according to plan, even if the plan is horrifying. If I tell the press that tomorrow a gangbanger will get shot, or a truckload of soldiers will be blown up, nobody panics.  Because it's all part of the plan.  But when I say that one little old mayor will die, everybody loses their minds! Introduce a little anarchy, you upset the established order and everything becomes chaos.  I'm an agent of chaos.  And you know the thing about chaos, Harvey?

It's fair. Dent looks down at the coin in his hands.  Turns it over,

Now you're talking.

What does it take to make you people want to join in..?113.

You failed to kill the lawyer... I've got to get you off the bench and into the game.  So, here it is...

Come nightfall, this city is mine, and anyone left here plays by my rules.  If you don't want to be in the game, get out now.

But the bridge-and-tunnel crowd are in for a surprise.

Tonight, you're all going to be part of a social experiment.

Through the magic of diesel fuel and ammonium nitrate, I'm ready right now to blow you all sky high.  Anyone attempts to get off their boat, you all die...

But we're going to make things a little more interesting than that. Tonight, we're going to learn a little bit about ourselves...

There's no need for all of you to die.  That would be a waste.  So I've left you both a little present.

Each of you has a remote to blow up the other boat.

At midnight, I blow you all up.  If, however, one of you presses the button, I'll let that boat live.  You choose.  So who's it going to be- Harvey Dent's most wanted scumbag collection... or the sweet innocent civilians? (beat) Oh, and you might want to decide quickly, because the people on the other boat may not be quite so noble.

You came.  I'm touched.

All the old familiar places.

If we don't stop fighting, we're going to miss the fireworks.

Can't rely on anyone these days.

Have to do everything yourself.  I always have- and it's not always easy...130. (smiles, remembering) You know how I got these scars? Batman looks up at him.

Just couldn't let me go, could you? I guess this is what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object.  You truly are incorruptible, aren't you?

You won't kill me out of some misplaced sense of self- righteousness... and I won't kill you because you're too much fun.  We're going to do this forever.

Maybe we can share it.  They'll need to double up, the rate this city's inhabitants are losing their minds...

Till their spirit breaks completely. Until they find out what I did with the best of them.  Until they get a good look at the real Harvey Dent, and all the heroic things he's done. (indicates ferry) Then those criminals will be straight back onto the streets and Gothamwill understand the true nature of heroism. (offlook)131.

I took Gotham's white knight.  And I brought him down to my level.  It wasn't hard- madness is like gravity. All it takes is a little push.

