Thank you...I, uhhh, I’m not Tony Stark, but if I were Tony, I’d tell you how honored I am and...what a joy it is to receive this award.  (then) The best thing about Tony is also the worst thing -- he’s always working.

Sleeping.  How did it go?

Sounds good.

I don’t do monograms.  I’m hanging up now, bye-bye. Stane hangs up.

Sorry, did I startle you?

This was a bad idea, I should never have let him go over there... He starts to break down.  She touches his shoulder.

See this.  Huh.  Huh. He hugs Tony warmly, speaks close.

Tony, thought we were meeting at the hospital.  You know there’s a lot of reporters in there.  What’s going on?

Okay, I think we’re going to be selling a lot of newspapers here.   (2) B. What we should take away from this is that Tony’s back, he’s healthier than ever, and as soon as he heals up and takes some time off, we’re going to have a little internal discussion and get back to you.  Thank you for coming by. Tony steps down, exhilarated.  He works his way through the swarming reporters, approaching Rhodey and Pepper -- who have stunned looks on their faces.

C.

That’s great.  Get me the design as soon as you can.  We’ve got a hungry production line that knock out a prototype in days. Tony looks at Obadiah, getting emotional.

Listen, I have something to talk to you about.  I really wish you’d attended the last board meeting like I asked you to.

The board’s filed an injunction against you.

They claim you’re unfit to run the company and want to lock you out.

They’re going to try. We’ll fight them, of course.

I don’t know.  Somehow they pulled enough votes together.  Listen, the world doesn’t share your vision, Tony.  The more people have to lose, the more frightened they are of new ideas. He pours two drinks.  Tony declines.

Now listen, I don’t want you to get all in knots.  You know how many times I protected your father from the wolves? Tony nods, still troubled.

Get back to your lab and work some magic.  You let me handle the board. Oh and Tony, no more press conferences. A.

What are you doing here?  I thought you were going to lay low.

Let’s just take it slow, okay.  I got the board right where we want them.

Is this like a tick for you?  Whenever you have a feeling, you start going to all the people who don’t trust you, who don’t protect you.  They’re going to put a spin on everything you say.

Are you out of your mind.  You’re messing with the “guys in the rooms”, we’re talking about billion dollar interests, the world order --

-- you should be.  You’ll disappear.  I can’t protect you against people like that --? The Paparazzi has snuck up on them, snapping photos. (2)

DO YOU MIND? They go further up the stairs.

Tony don’t be so naive --

-- Tony, you’re a child --!

-- you’ve got about as much control over things as a child riding in the backseat of your father’s car with a red plastic steering wheel in your hand.

You’re not even allowed in the car. (then) I’m the one who’s filing the injunction against you. Tony is shell-shocked.  Then, he goes after Obadiah.  They jostle and Obadiah backs off as Tony goes ballistic.  The paparazzi snap photos.

It’s the only way I could protect you. Aki (from earlier) and several Obadiah’s Men, smiling, but steely-eyed, step in to  prevent Tony from following Obadiah to his waiting car. A107 A107 A.

If you’d killed him when you were supposed to, you’d still have a face.

I think it’s best we don’t get him involved in this. (then)  I’ve come a long way to see this weapon.  Show me.

(as it dawns on him) ...so this is how he did it.

What’s this?

(in perfect Urdu) This...is the only gift you shall receive. Raza is strangely confused.  Paralyzed.  Blood begins running from his ear. And now, in Obadiah’s hand, we realize he’s holding a device. A sonic taser. Obadiah removes a pair of filtering ear-plugs as Raza crumples to the dirt.

Technology -- (holds up the taser) it’s always been your Achilles Heel.  Don’t worry, it’ll wear off in fifteen minutes -- but that’s the least of your problems. Obadiah removes Raza’s ring, studies it.  Then he turns and exits--

(to head guard) Crate up that armor and the rest of it. We TRACK WITH Obadiah as he passes Raza’s kneeling men.

Send them to their virgins. The SOUND of MACHINE GUN FIRE.  Obadiah does not flinch. -81A.

Civilization, gentlemen, has been preserved by the right people having the right idea at the right time.  You are shaping in your hands, this very moment, the future of this company, and this nation.  But it is imperative this project remain data-masked, that it’s existence never leave these walls.  Make no mistake -- this is a ‘tool’, that in wrong hands, could jeopardize civilization as we know it. Obadiah faces the Head Engineer.

The Sampson’s yours.  We go 24-7.

I told you, miniaturize the ARK reactor.

Tony Stark was able to do it in a cave -- with a box of scraps.

What a nice surprise.

How’s Tony? -86A.

You and everyone else. He circles her, picking up a photo on the desk of Tony.  Pepper stiffens, flicks a glance at -- The hacking jump-drive protruding.  The WHIRR and GRIND of the hard drive as it copies Stane’s files.

(matter-of-fact) Tony’s imploding -- it’s unfortunate.  (then)  You should consider whether you want to take that ride with him.

You know I love Tony -- but this is business.  We can’t save him, but we can save his legacy. She flashes to the download screen, “87%” completed.

It’s tragic, but...Tony never really came home, did he? He circles behind her again, looking closely at the screen-- again depicting Google ads.

This company has a bright future, I’d like you to be a part of it. He smiles and touches her cheek.  She shuts off the computer.

Tony doesn’t understand your value.  He never did.     (2) -86B.

Think about it. (then) Come on, I’ll walk you out. He takes her box of personal effects, waits for her.  As she passes the computer, she snatches the jump drive out, palming it.  A tense moment: did he see her? (3) 126 126-86C.

It’s UNOS.  Four cheese.  I just had it flown in from Chicago. Tony remains stoic.  Obadiah puts the pizza down, crosses to Tony and hands him a letter.

I’d like you to proof-read something for me.

Can you turn him off?  All the way?

You were right.  It’s not my company -- not my name on the building. We were a great team...but I guess this is where our paths diverge. Tony hears a blip from the phone system. CLOSE ON - ANSWERING SYSTEM LCD“INCOMING.  PEPPER POTTS” appears. Tony looks to Obadiah.

Tony.  Please.  I’ll be out of here in a minute. Tony finally nods, pushes a button, sending the call to voice mail. Obadiah meets Tony’s eyes, fatherly.  Puts a hand on Tony’s shoulder.

We have too much history to part on bad terms.  I’d like your blessing. Tony’s eyes, suddenly registering a paralyzing pain.

A. FLASH ON: Stane’s ear, the blue electronic ‘filter’, like the ones he wore with Raza. Tony sinks back in his chair .  Stane places the sonic taser down on the table.

Easy, now.  Try to breathe... He kneels beside Tony.  Unbuttons Tony’s shirt.

You can’t mess with progress, Tony. It’s an insult to the Gods.  You created your greatest weapon ever -- but you think that means it belongs to you.  It belongs to the world. CLOSE ON - TONY’S EYES: wide with pain, unable to move.  All he can do is gasp and gurgle as -- Stane begins removing the chest-piece from its socket.

Your “heart” will be the seed of the next generation of weapons.  They’ll help us steer the world back in the right direction -- put the balance of power back in our hands.  The right hands. CLOSE ON - OBADIAH: he removes Tony’s “heart”, the RT glow reflecting on his face.

By the time you die, my prototype will be operational. (smiles)  It’s not as conservative as yours. He wraps the heart in cloth.  Then stands, clicking off the sonic taser and pocketing it. Tony rolls from the chair, onto his back, staring at the ceiling.  Already slipping away.  Then--

The sad thing is...we’re both the good guys. Obadiah kills the lights and leaves (2)

It’s miraculous, Tony, it’s your Ninth Symphony.  Trying to rid the world of weapons, you gave it its best one ever.

How can you be so selfish?  Do you understand what you’ve created?   (2) This will put the balance of power back in our hands for decades.  Your country needs this.

Your father helped give us the bomb.  What kind of world would it be if he’d failed us? A. INTERCUT - INT.  DYNAMO SUIT - SAME TIME STANE’S POV:  waiting, as Iron Man emerges from behind machinery and girders.  He doesn’t see Dynamo, who charges --

People are always going to die, Tony -- part of the chess game. INTERCUT - INT. VOLVO - SAME TIME - NIGHT The world skewed fifteen feet below them.  The mother white- knuckles the steering wheel in terror.  The kids scream.

It didn’t have to end like this, Tony.  You were down -- you should’ve stayed down. And they’re about to collide again when -- A Shit Kicking Biker on a Harley weaves from around a truck. He realizes his mistake and jams the throttle, but -- Dynamo grabs the front wheel of the motorbike, (sending the Biker flying), and in one swoop belts Iron Man with it. Tony tumbles away and struggles to get up.  Falls, tries again, but Dynamo is all over him, smacking him with the bike.

So this is the answer, Tony?  This is how you’re going to save the world?  It’s not in you.  Your father told me before he died, my boy doesn’t have a warrior’s heart. I should have listened.

But I do. Now we see what Stane is attempting: to manually winch his forearm rocket bay open so he can blast Tony. But his movements unsettle the Dynamo suit and suddenly he begins to slide.

Goodbye, my boy...

