Oh, I get it.  You guys aren’t allowed to talk.  Is that it?  Are you not allowed to talk? One Airman grins, fidgeting with his orange NY Mets watch.

Oh.  I see.  So it’s personal.

Good God, you’re a woman. The others try to compress laughs.

I, honestly, I couldn’t have called that. (after silence) I would apologize,  but isn’t that what we’re going for here? I saw you as a soldier first.

Please.

Excellent question. Yes and no.  March and I had a schedule conflict but, thankfully, the Christmas cover was twins.  Anyone else?  You, with the hand up.

Join the club.

Are you aware that Native Americans believe photographs steal a little piece of your soul? (then) Not to worry, mine’s long gone.  Fire away. Pratt, excited, poses as another Airman snaps the photo.  A second later -- A MASSIVE EXPLOSION rocks them.  Through the windshield, the Humvee ahead of them erupts in a fireball. Tony is flung aside, and in the side-mirror --The Humvee behind them EXPLODES.  Pandemonium as --  The Airmen are instantly in battle mode.  They scramble out, shutting Tony inside.

...you think we’re having a ‘moment’ here, but this is actually the logical conclusion of several mathematical truisms.   (3) Your hypothalamus is flooding your system with a chain of proteins called peptides, so that every cell in your body is opening itself up to the happy chemical: oxytocin.

Hold on a second -- He rolls again.  The table is hot.  More cheers.

-- so now your limbic system is positively...throbbing.  A Kirlian photograph of us right now, occupying this space, would show serious subatomic particles being exchanged between us, with a rapidity that transcends-- (then)Are you getting this?  You will be quizzed -- And now he sees Rhodey pulling up, glowering.

My God, what are you, they roped you into this thing too?

Okay, let’s do it. Rhodey plops the ARES statue down on the felt.

That was quick.  Thought there’d be more of, you know, a ceremony.  Maybe a highlight reel -- Tony shakes karma into the dice, rolls again.  He craps out.  Groans from the table, everyone staring at Rhodey the “cooler”.

(to the Boxman) Colore me up.

A. (turns others)  My chaperone has just arrived with my -- (holding the ARES) -- Degenerate of the Year Award.  Judging from his look, I may have just peed in the kiddie pool. The Boxman racks up Tony’s chips.

I must now take my ease, along with the House’s funds. He’s handed racks of chips, then tips the table Operators and heads off with Rhodey.  Two hotel Security Guards fall in behind.  As they meander past tables -- People gawk, snap photos of Tony with their phones.

It belongs to my old man.  They should have given it to him.

Hold that thought a sec. He’s stopped in front of a roulette wheel.  Puts all his chips down on, nods to wheel operator.

Put it all on black.  Don’t worry -- it’s approved. The Wheel Operator spins -- CLOSE ON - ROULETTE WHEEL: the ball finally settling on red.The Dealer scoops away Tony’s chips.

B.

Yeah.  Don’t know what was more exciting -- winning it...or the fact that I don’t care I just lost it.

No.  You’re not funny.

One more stop.

Of course I respect your opinion.

This system has to be demonstrated in true field conditions. The Bathroom door swings open and VIRGINIA “PEPPER” POTTS enters, Tony’s sexy and very capable assistant.

...Jim, how’re the trout running?  Yeah, sitting on top of the world here.  Working on my masterpiece --

Okay -- shoot.   C8 C8A.

Can I ask a few back? She gives him a disarming smile.  Tony waves at Security to let her through.  Pepper shakes her head, then takes a call.

Ridiculous.  I don’t paint.

That’s not bad -- Her gaze is suddenly cold.

Let me guess.  Berkeley?

Well Miss Brown, it’s an imperfect world and I assure you, the day weapons are no longer needed to keep the peace, I’ll start manufacturing bricks and beams to make baby hospitals.

Every night in front of the mirror.  Call me Tony.

Here’s serious: my old man had a philosophy: peace means having a bigger stick than the other guy.

My father helped defeat Hitler.  He was on the Manhattan Project.  A lot of people -- including your professors at Brown -- might call that being a hero.

Tell me: do you plan to report on the millions we’ve saved by advancing medical technology?  Or kept from starving with our inteli-crops?  All were breakthroughs spawned from, that’s right, military funding.

Five?  I’ll need a bit longer than that --

You’re rushing me.  What, you have plans tonight?

Maybe.  Tell me your plans.

What’s it look like?

It’s a minor work in his later Spring Period, it’s ludicrously over-priced--

Buy it. A. She’s interrupted by her phone and taps her blue-tooth headset.  Listens.

You have plans, don’t you --?

It’s your birthday again?

Well, get yourself something from me.  Something nice.

And...?

You’re welcome, Miss Potts. B.

Sorry, pal -- car trouble.

I had car trouble. A hot Flight Attendant holds out steamy towels with thongs.

Thanks, maybe later. Rhodey grabs a towel.  The WHINE of ENGINES build.

Two fingers of Laphroig. (to Rhodey)  You want one?

You should have a drink.  We’ve got a twelve hour flight ahead of us.

It’s two in the morning where we’re going.  C’mon, ten hours “bottle to throttle --”

Jeez, we’re not getting hammered.  Just a nightcap.  We’ll sleep better, arrive fresh.  It’s the responsible thing to do. I don’t know about you, but I want to sell some weapons. Off Rhodey’s stoic look, we --

A.

All I said was, with your smarts, your engineering background, you could write your own ticket in the private sector -- on top of which, you wouldn’t have to wear that ‘straight-jacket’.

(motions with a nod) See that one?  Her I understand.  Croatian.  Hot-blooded, I’m serious.  Must be those winters in Zagreb --

I am listening.  I’m changing the subject.  It’s the same litany, every time you’ve had a thimble of alcohol.  Drink One: reflections on the New American Century and related topics -- (2)

Drink 2: a history of World War II and the Tuskeegee Flyers.  Drink 3--

Go hang with the pilot.  You’ll get along, he’s got a personality just like yours.

You could tell? A.

The age old question: is it better to be feared or respected?  I say, is it too much to ask for both? He nods at the Jericho Missile, on a mobile launcher.

With that in mind, I humbly present the crown jewel of Stark Industries Freedom Line.  It’s the first missile system to incorporate my proprietary Repulsor Technology.   They say the best weapon is one you never have to fire.  I prefer the one you only have to fire once... The Jericho ROARS into the sky from a mobile launcher.

That’s how dad did it, it’s how America does it, and so far its worked out pretty well. Find an excuse to fire off one of these and I personally guarantee the enemy is not gonna want to leave their caves.

For your consideration, the Jericho...

Now there’s one last creation I haven’t shown anyone yet.  You might be interested...

(raises his glass) To peace, gentlemen...and with every five hundred million, I’ll throw in a free one of these...

Hey, what are you doing up ?

I think we got an early Christmas coming.

Hey, why aren’t you wearing the PJs I got you?

All right, who wants to ride with me?  Jimmy?

Sorry, Rhodey, no room for my conscience in here.  Or that hang-dog look. (raising his glass)  See you back at base. Rhodey shakes his head, and heads for a different Humvee.   (2)

(hoarse whisper) ...water...water. Yinsen keeps humming.  Tony yanks the IV from his arm and stretches for the water, but is stopped by -- A wire, under his chest bandages, snapping taut.

What have you done to me?

I don’t remember.

Where are we --? The door-slat flies opens and a pair of dark eyes stare in. Yinsen drops his spoon, puts his hands on his head.

...I refuse. Yinsen backhands Tony across the face, goes ballistic -- A23 A23 A.

How did they get all this?

No he won’t

Why should I do anything, they’re either going to kill me or I’m going to die in a week.

Okay, here’s what I need... Tony paces, barking what he needs done while more of Abu’s Guards carry in missiles and materials.  Yinsen follows, translating as Tony assesses his work area.

S-Category missiles.  Lot 7043.  The S-30 explosive tritonal.  And a dozen of the S-76.  Mortars: M-Category #1, 4, 8, 20, and 60.  M-229’s, I need eleven of these.  Mines: the pre-90s AP 5s and AP 16s.YINSEN (in Arabic) S-Category missiles.  Lot 7043.  The S-30 explosive tritonal.  And a dozen of the S-76.  Mortars: M-Category #1, 4, 8, 20, and 60.  M-229’s, he needs eleven of these.  Mines: the pre-90s AP 5s and AP 16s. Abu’s men dart about.

...this area free of clutter, with good light.  I want it at 12 o’clock to the door to avoid logjams.  I need welding gear -- acetelyene or propane, helmets, a soldering set-up with goggles, and smelting cups.  Two full sets of precision tools.  YINSEN (in Arabic) ...this area free of clutter, with good light.  He wants it at 12 o’clock to the door to avoid logjams.  He needs welding gear -- acetylene or propane, helmets, a soldering set-up with goggles, and smelting cups.  Two full sets of precision tools. Abu getting exasperated by the never-ending list. -27.

Finally, I want: three pairs of tube socks, white, a toothbrush, protein powder, spices, sugar, five pounds of tea, cards.  (thinks, then)  And a washing machine.  Top load.YINSEN Finally, he needs: three pairs of tube socks, white, a toothbrush, protein powder, spices, sugar, five pounds of tea, and some playing cards.  (pauses)  And a washing machine.  Top load. Abu’s eye bulge.  He gets in Tony’s face.

(to Abu) Must have everything.  Great Satan make big boom-kill for powerful Abu Bakar.  Big boom-kill. OMITTED B32 B32 OMITTED C32 C32

I know, they’re crazy not stupid. Tony walks the heavy chip-rack to the work-bench and removes a tiny palladium strip.

This is what we’re looking for.  I need eleven of these. A32 A32 -27A.

Heat the palladium to 1825 Kelvin.

The palladium will melt. LATER: INSERT OF:  Tony wraps a copper coil around the glass ring.INSERT OF: Tony drops palladium strips into a crucible on the fire. INSERT OF: Tony sculpts a sand-mold for the palladium ring.LATER:SHOT OF: Yinsen bringing the crucible of melted palladium to Tony.

Careful, careful...

Oh yeah, thanks.  What do I call you?

Nice to meet you.

A better mousetrap. OMITTED F32 F32 OMITTED G32 G32

What are you shaving for?  We’re almost done.

That’s because it’s a miniature ARK reactor.  It should suspend the shrapnel in my chest and keep it from entering my heart.

Yeah, but this one is going to last a bit longer than a week.

Three gigajoules -- per second. Yinsen marvels.

Or something very big for fifteen minutes. Their eyes meet a moment, then --

Let’s put it in.

Looks to me like you’re making a crappy backgammon board.

Is that where you’re from, Lebanon? -27E.

“A” I don’t know what your talking about.  “B” I was the backgammon champ at MIT four years running.

Please don’t use ‘interesting’ and Cambridge in the same sentence. (then) Is that still a school?

Unless they’re teaching. The door-slat flies open.  Abu again.  He barks, more stern than usual.  Tony stops, the secret cylinder he was filling,, clatters to the floor.  Yinsen notices, looks at Tony. Abu, Ahmed and Omar enter, followed by RAZA’S GUARDS.  They take up positions, rigid.  Raza enters (he speaks English).

(unplugging himself) We’re ready.  A week of assembly and we’re a go.

Right back at ya.

You never told me where you’re from. A moment, then --

Do you have a family?

...no.

Yeah-yeah, enjoy your laundry. Abu is about to head out when Raza enters.  Abu freezes. Raza eyes’s dip to the laundry, then without warning -- He shoots Abu in the head.  Tony and Yinsen stand there, stock-still.

It’s frozen, the systems aren’t talking to each other.  Reset!

Get to your cover.  Remember the checkpoints -- make sure each one is clear before you follow me out. A decision, then Yinsen runs out.

YINSEN!

turns into the main chamber and sees Yinsen on the ground.

We could’ve made it.  Both of us.  You could’ve seen your family again.

Help me out of this thing-- He struggles to his feet, faltering.  Rhodey steadies him.

(managing a smile) Your eyes are red.  A few tears for your long-lost boss?

You do something new with your hair?

No -- to the office .  (then)  I’ve been in captivity for three months. There’s only two things I want to do.  I want to eat a cheeseburger.  And I want to hold a press conference. Off Pepper’s stunned look--

You’ll see.  C’mon -- They head inside.

I...can’t do this anymore. Pregnant silence.  Everyone waiting for the Stark punch-line.  Finally, a Reporter ventures -- REPORTER # 1 You mean you’re retiring?

No, I don’t want to retire.  I want to do something else. The room waits through more awkward silence, then -- REPORTER # 1 Something besides weapons?

Yes.  That’s right. The room is suddenly BUZZING with overlapping questions -- REPORTER #2 The official report was sketchy.  What happened to you over there, Mr. Stark? Tony is pensive, then the floodgates open.

What happened over there?  I had my eyes opened, that’s what happened.  I saw my weapons, with my name on them, in the hands of thugs.  I thought we were doing good here...I can’t say that anymore. A. Rhodey, just arriving in the rear, pulls up to Pepper.

The system is broken -- there’s no accountability  whatsoever.  Right now, as of this second, we are freezing the sale of all Stark weaponry worldwide. Now the room is in chaos.  Obadiah’s ready to wrap this up, and moves towards Tony.

We’ve lost our way.  I need to re-evaluate things.  And my heart’s telling me I have more to offer the planet than things that blow up. REPORTER #3 So you’re saying...what are you saying?

(arm around Stane) In the coming months, Mr. Stane here and I will set a new course for Stark Industries.  “Tomorrow Today” has always been our slogan.  It’s time we try to live up to it. The questions are now firing in a CACOPHONY.  Obadiah takes the podium.

Wait and see.  (3)

Hello, Jarvis.

...I need to build a better heart.

Give me a scan and you’ll see.

It powers an electromagnet which keeps the shrapnel from entering my heart. Can you recommend any ugrades?

What are you talking about?  That is ridiculous.  That is exactly the purpose of this invention. MONITORS: going deeper and deeper through the strata of Tony’s device.  Like it’s a city unto itself. A75 A75

Upgrade recommendations.  List.

Because you are acting like one.

No.  It’s ok.  You are the only one who understands me.

Were you always this dry?  I remember you having more personality than this.

Fine.  Could you please make your recommendations now?

Ahh that’s more like it.

Machine away. VARIOUS SHOTS: Tony loads raw metal stock onto a lathe and begins cutting.A robot arm organizes pieces of cut stock.  The CNC Machine comes to life and begins milling parts. (2) B.

Pepper?  How big are your hands?

How big are your hands?

-- just get down here.

Show me your hands. A.

Just show me your hands. She does.

Perfect, they’re small.  I need you to help me.

That’s the thing that was keeping me alive.  It is now an antique.  This is what will be keeping me alive for the foreseeable future. He hold up the newly fabricated, higher tech replacement chest piece.

I’m going to swap them out and switch all functions to the new unit.

Completely.  First I need you to reach in and--

The socket.

The chest socket. Listen carefully, because we have to do this in a matter of minutes.

I can go into cardiac arrest.

I didn’t want you to panic.

Stay with me.  I need you to relieve the pressure on my myocardial nerve.

I’m telling you.

Listen.  I’m going to lift off the old chest piece--

Not immediately.  When I lift it off I need you to reach into the socket as far as your hand can fit and gently move the housing away from my heart.  Do you know which direction that is?

To my right.  Your left.

Right.

Right.  Left. Pepper begins to reach in.

Keep going. She reaches uncomfortably deep.

That’s it.  Deeper.  Now press. Yes.  It’s releasing. She pulls her hand out covered in a nasty pink slime.

It’s not pus.  It’s an inorganic plasmic discharge.  It’s from the device, not my body.

Yes. Thank you.

The new unit is much more efficient.  This shouldn’t happen again.

It is now.

Can it at least wait until I install my new untested ground-breaking self-contained power source and lifesaving device prototype?

Throw that thing out.

Why?  It’s antiquated.

Pepper.  I have been called many things.  Nostalgic is not one of them. The new chest lights brightly. (4) E.

There.  Good as new.  Thank you.

Shoot.

I don’t have anyone else. They share a rare moment without words.  A smile?

That will be all, Ms. Potts. She exits.  He watches, then stands up.   (5) F. OMITTED A81 A81 (6) 80 80-49.

These aren’t for walking. NEW ANGLE - LATER - DAY B83 B83 Tony, finishes marking a ‘test circle’ with pieces of tape.  He’s now wearing the boots, wired to a chest ‘bandolier’.

Ready to record the big moment, Jarvis?

We’ll start off easy.  Ten percent. Tony activates hand-controlled joysticks.  He shoots up, flips over and out of frame.  Crashes.  After a beat--

Great.  I, uhh, think I know what this needs.

Why not...a pilot without the plane?

(to the pilots) Who wants to take these apart and put them back together?

Why not?

Why does everybody think I need time?

I’ve got it straight.  And I’m back to work.

I’m onto something big.  I want you to be a part of it.

I mean what I said.

Maybe I do need a little time.

Likewise. Tony walks from the hangar.  Rhodey watches him go.

It’s a flight-stabilizer.

Be right up. She leaves a small package on a worktable and departs.  Tony turns, spotting the box. Intrigued, he tears it open to find-- His old chest-device, mounted in Lucite, glowing faintly. It’s inscribed: PROOF THAT TONY STARK HAS A HEART...

This -- this is the big-big idea.  It can pull the company in a whole new direction.

You know, I had a moment there where I was...reluctant...but I know now I made the best decision.  I feel like I’m doing something... right, finally. (meaning it) Thank you for supporting me in this. Obadiah nods, touched, then --

I know, I’m sorry. What did I miss?

What?

How the hell can they do that?  It’s my name on the building! My ideas that drive that company.

With the amount of stocks we own I thought we controlled the company.

Nothing to it... He cuts the propulsion and lands.  Looks to Jarvis.

All right.  Let’s get to work. OMITTED A90 A90

Standby for calibration. The gauntlets and boots fire up, and Tony rises.  Suddenly--

Whoa-- He loses balance, falls back onto the hood of his Saleen, crushing it.  The ALARM goes off.  Tony kills the alarm with a blast of RT.

We should take this outside.

We’ll do them in-flight.

That’s why you’re coming with me. TONY’S POV - THE “HEADS-UP DISPLAY” The HUD comes alive as Jarvis “loads” into the suit’s on- board system. Tony fires boots and gauntlets again.  He hovers, floating along the workshop’s driveway.

Never interrupt me while I’m with a beautiful woman?

Whatever floats you, Jarvis.

Uhh, Jarvis?  JARVIS --? The glow gone from his chest, the suit a dead hull.  The world starts to pinwheel outside.

STATUS, STATUS!  REBOOT -- Then: another POP, and a SURGE.  The heads-up display flickers back to life, the suit’s power returns.

Jarvis, I think we need to chat about, uh, Directive Four.

You’re a downer, Jarvis.  But I appreciate the heads-up.

No, I got it, I got it -- He punches through the roof of his mansion.

Perfect.  Let’s do some upgrades. LAB - LATER Tony’s out of the suit, which hangs nearby.  He’s jazzed up, typing fast on his terminal. The screens are alive with scrolling data, graphics and diagnostic tests.  The plasma TV is on low in the b.g. * JARVIS (O.S.) * That was quite dangerous, Sir.  * Might I remind you, if the suit * loses power, so does your heart. * TONY * Yeah, and it doesn’t have a * seatbelt either.  A few issues: * main transducer felt sluggish at * plus forty altitude.  Same goes for * hull pressurization.  I’m thinking * icing might be a factor. *

Hm.  Bit ostentatious, don’t you * think? * He looks over at -- * His hot-rod and motorcycle.

Add a little red, would you? Tony’s distracted by the TV.  Local entertainment Reporter standing outside Disney Hall. He grabs a remote, turns it up.

Good.  I should come up for air anyway. As Tony exits, the Mark III factory gets to work.

Eyyy, there he is.  My man! The man turns, it’s not Hugh Hefner, but Stan Lee .

Sorry, thought you were someone else. (2) B. Tony strides up to Obadiah, puts his arm around him and poses for photos.

It’s time to start showing my face again.

Great. Tony doesn’t want to talk to them.

See ya inside. (smile)  Lots to talk about. He heads inside. C.

Oh...was I supposed to meet you here?

Yes, you’re right.  I’m going to handle this right now.  Let me check with my assistant. Tony beelines for Pepper.  She’s surprised to see him.

Miss Potts -- can I have five minutes?  You look...you look like should always wear that dress.

I have great taste.   Care to dance? Tony takes her hand and whisks her onto the dance floor.   (2) Tony and Pepper dance, looking good together.  Natural.

I’m sorry.  Am I making you uncomfortable?  You seem very uncomfortable.

Would it help if I fired you?

I’m not so sure.

(smiles) Uh...

Can I get you another glass of wine?

Okay. He goes, then is stopped.

(waits)

(smiles) No.  You’re not a cheeseburger. He goes.  She flushes. (2) -63. -63A.

How’s panic?

Hey, they just put my name on the invitations -- She thrusts a dossier of photos out to him.

When were these taken?

I didn’t approve this shipment. (2)

Come with me. He leaves, making a bee line for...

I made some promises I’m not going to be able to keep.  I suggest you pull all your money out of Stark Industries immediately -- Obadiah is suddenly there, steering Tony up the entrance stairs.

Wait a minute.  I got to ask you something.   I’m dead serious about this.  I’m not kidding.  Am I losing my mind or is Pepper really cute?  Do you think she’s attractive and interesting, or is it just that her hair is down?  I’ve been out of the game for a while.

I’m not worried about that right now --

-- naive?  I was naive before, when I was growing up and they told me don’t ever cross this line, this is how we do business.  In the meantime we’re double-dealing under the table.  We don’t even deserve to represent the United States --

-- you don’t believe I can turn this company around, do you --?

Maybe I’ll just get out of the car.

(yelling after Obadiah) This is going to stop.

(never looking at her) Get my house in Dubai ready.  I want to throw a party. She’s flustered by his abrupt tone.

Ever known me to need one? The Tycoon laughs, as Tony keeps moving.

Life of the party -- isn’t that what everyone wanted? (then) Cue the fireworks in five, would you? DUBAI BEAUTY #1 Kinky! He stumbles towards the house with the two giggling women

I’ll be right back.  Why don’t you two...get started without me. They laugh and he checks his watch, then slips out a side door, instantly sober.

Jarvis, plot a course for home. INTERCUT - INT. CENTRAL AIR OPS CTR - SAME TIME - (NIGHT) Rhodey enters, pulling off his jacket.  He paces past screens taking in the SAT-IMAGES of Iron Man’s assault on Gulmira.

(hesitates, then) Put it through, Jarvis. (listens) Yeah?

I’m in the convertible.  Not the best time --

Never heard of anything like that.  Why?

Uhh...’kingdom come’?

This is my exit -- gotta go.

Jarvis -- AIR BRAKES! The brakes pop out from the suit and Tony instantly slams down to a quarter-speed.  The jets blow past him.

Rhodey, I had Jarvis run a check.  I might have some info on that UAV.  A piece of gear like that might exist.  Might definitely exist -- Rhodey speaks low, away from the Major.   (2) A116 A116 D.

Get me home...

Weapons I built are being used to kill innocent people.  Can’t let that happen anymore.

Yes I can.

Next time, maybe I won’t play defense. Rhodey, floored, gets to his feet.  Paces.

That’s up to you.  I’ve made my choice -- I’m not going to sit on the sidelines anymore -- I’m going to fight for what’s right.

That’s where you’re wrong... He drifts into unconsciousness.

What gives, Jarvis?

(as he scans the letter) Spin down Jarvis. Tony looks up from the letter, surprised.

Your resignation.

Pepper.  I should take that.

Where’s Pepper?

(grim--) They’re going to need a lot more than a few Agents.  Give me hand.

Where are you--? Now she hears -- THUMP from below her.  The asphalt cracks.  Another THUMP and another and -- Pepper is knocked over as the asphalt bulges open to reveal the Dynamo’s fist.  Her cellphone skitters away.  Like a hatching dinosaur, he peels away asphalt, pulling himself out of the ground,  and finally -- B146 B146 Rises to his full height.  He turns, face-to-face with Pepper, who’s a gnat against this dull-grey leviathan.

Pepper, I have one thing I need to say to you:  DUCK! Pepper dives as-- A. The Dynamo stops, jerking his head up to see -- Iron Man, diving out of the sky at him, feet first.  He lands on the Dynamo’s shoulders, and --The iron giants crash back into the hole Dynamo crawled from.

This wasn’t meant for the world . Still moving, still swiveling through the murk --

What kind of world will it be when everybody’s got one?

A little busy, Pepper--

Get to the control room.  Shut it down--

Don’t.  This is our fight.

Emergency power!

NOW! Dynamo winds up to throw the car when Iron Man nails him with a huge Repulsor blast from his chest .  Dynamo is knocked back, throwing the car at -- Iron Man, who catches it.  But the weight is too much for his armor to handle and he -- Buckles, saving the car from impact, but gets trapped underneath it.

Central panel.  Red button.  Press it. INTERCUT - INT. ARK REACTOR CONTROL ROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT DEAFENING KLAXONS.  Pepper flips open a panel to find -- A HUNDRED BUTTONS.  All red .  All flashing.

What’s the delta rate? Pepper finds the monitor.

Damn -- A160 A160

Pepper, I’m delegating this to you.  FIND A WAY!

You know what happens when that reactor blows.  A lot of people are going to die.

You had to take my car. He pulls out Rhodey, dazed and bloody.

Get this area evacuated!  There’s going to be a meltdown-- Tony’s boosters ignite and he’s gone.

Pepper, how we doing?

It’s too late.

It’s going to blow a crater a mile wide.  I’m coming to get you. She backs away from the monitors, disbelieving.

Pepper, wait.  Stay put -- we’re going to overload the reactor.

No, it’s compressing energy.  We’re going to convert the plasma core to electricity and channel it up through the roof.  Like a Tesla coil.

See a red submarine hatch?  A wheel -- a red wheel.

Open it all the way, then standby to hit the master.  We’ve only got one shot at this. He’s connecting a wire when the satellite dish beside him reflects an eerie yellow flicker.  He turns, stunned as -- THE DYNAMO LANDS on the roof.  Flames still licking off his blackened suit.  Obadiah moves closer to Tony --

Pepper, hit the switch.  PEPPER  --

Take my hand...

My father never knew me.

This is just the beginning. And now Obadiah shuts the hatch and tumbles away.  He -- Plunges down through the ARK’s silo -- splashes into the plasma which HISSES and swallows him up. Tony remains, shutting his eyes.

Maybe it was just the two of us.  On the yacht, I mean.

“Iron Man”.  Not technically accurate, since it’s mostly carbon-fiber and ceramic.  But I like the ring of it.  “Iron Man”... They turn a corner.  Tony suddenly stops.  Meets her eyes.

You know...that night at the concert hall.  Do you ever think about it? -113. For a moment there is nothing else in the world but the two of them.  Then, with a tinge of sadness--

That will be all Miss Potts.

I’ve seen the papers.  I’ve heard the reports.  That’s why I want to put an end to all this wild speculation.  The truth is-- He looks to Rhodey.  To Pepper.  To the crowd.

I am Iron Man. The Reporters erupt in a CACOPHONY-- We end on Tony’s face.  CUE MUSIC

--and a rocket launcher on the left?  Where are you going to store all that ammo?

